---
title: SXSW 09 – Prequel
author: admin
type: posts
date: 2009-03-13T16:25:12+00:00
url: /posts/2009/03/13/86162855/
yourls_shorturl:
  - https://lobban.org/i/56
categories:
  - Nerdery

---
So I’m going to try and blog every day from SXSW. I’m writing here instead of my [Nonimage Blog][1] because I want toblog about everythig that happened, not just the ‘businessy’ stuff.

So here’s the rundown of yesterday:

It was my birthday.

Awake: 3.30am UK time

Sleep: 11.30pm (4.30am UK time)

Flights: 3 &#8211; Edinburgh to Paris, Paris to Atlanta, Atlanta to Austin

In Atlanta I had 2 beers and a strong Jack and coke and because of the lack of sleep and travelling, felt rather tipsy. I was then told the flight was overbooked and I wouldn’t get to Austin to the next evening. Thanks Delta. Luckily a guy in first class left his ID across the airport, and had to go get it and wait for the next flight. So I got into first class. Awesome.

Times I was given food: 9 (Flights are like that. I didn’t actually try to eat 9 meals

Films watched: 3 &#8211; The Day The Earth Stood Still (terrible), the latest Bond (again), Flash of Genius (mediocre)

TV watched: 1 episode of The (US) Office

Books read: 1.2 &#8211; A book with excerpts from good blogs (freebie, some of it was excellent), then started ‘Bad Vibes’ by Luke Haines (excellent and very funny so far)

Music: 3 albums &#8211; ‘The Photo Album’ by Death Cab For Cutie, ‘Midnight Organ Fight’ by Frightened Rabbit, The Pains of Being Pure At Heart

That’s it for now. I’m back at the hotel having picked up my badge, big bags and a ticket for Objectified (film) tomorrrow. I’m going to get a US sim card now.

 [1]: http://www.nonimage.com/blog