---
title: T in the Park 2009
author: admin
type: post
date: 2009-07-31T12:06:48+00:00
url: /journal/2009/07/31/152915277/
yourls_shorturl:
  - http://lobban.org/i/2y
categories:
  - Music
tags:
  - festivals
  - music
  - offthebeatentracks
  - tinthepark

---
I was at T in the Park this year doing Off The Beaten Tracks sessions in association with The Skinny on Saturday and Sunday.

I turned up on Friday to collect my passes, scout out the location we had been given to film, and hopefully see a few bands. After the usual attitude from people at the accreditation tent, I spent almost two hours trying to get my passes and get into the site. They don&#8217;t make it easy. Headed to the &#8216;Media Village&#8217;, scored some food and a coke, scouted out the best place to film, went to watch bands. Missed Maccabees annoyingly. Saw some Edwyn Collins, Jamie T, Idlewild, Yeah Yeahs Yeahs and Nick Cave. The crowds for YYYs and Nick Cave are pitifully small considering. Nick Cave must have played to about a thousand people. Really. At a 90 thousand (?) capacity festival. This will become a theme for the weekend. YYYs bring on a pipe band to play with them for a song. The place goes mental. It&#8217;s very strange being at a festival sober. I&#8217;ve enever done it before, and TintheP is perhaps not the best place to start. There are casualties everywhere and it&#8217;s only Friday evening. The carnage is in full swing. However, being on your own and sober means you get to see a lot of bands, which is great. I get a laugh when I get home and speak to one of the bands we&#8217;re filming the next day. &#8220;Is 4.30 OK?&#8221; I ask. &#8220;Hang on, I&#8217;ll just see what bands are on then. Don&#8217;t want to miss any bands I like,&#8221; they reply. I honestly can&#8217;t remember which band it was.

  * Maple Leaves
  * Edwyn Collins
  * Idlewild
  * Jamie T
  * Yeah Yeah Yeahs
  * Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds
  * Crystal Castles

Saturday, and I have Colin with me to help with filming, as Alex has baby duties to attend to. We arrive early to find out we can use the odd little &#8216;country kitchen&#8217; that has been set up for interviews. Score. We see Mumford and Sons (really good) and M83 (amazing) in between trips to the T Break tent. We catch 10 mins of Lady Ga Ga (interesting but ultimately shit) before heading back for the day&#8217;s sessions. We do 3 sessions over the next few hours (5 were booked but only 3 turned up). First was The French Quarter from Stirling. Their songs are quiet. Very quiet. Good, but quiet for an area where people are buzzing about and we have the main stage and King Tut&#8217;s tent nearby with bands playing. We&#8217;ll see how that turns out. Next up is Mike Nisbet and his band, who are a bit louder, and also good. They visibly melt in the intense sunshine while playing their songs. At some point around this time we have a visit from a Scottish radio presenter who chucks a little diva strop because we&#8217;re filming where he wants to do a radio review, and it would appear that he is more important and therefore should get to use the space, He is dealt with swiftly. Last for the day is Trapped In Kansas. They are also pretty quiet, but we manage to tease some more volume out of them. Their songs are fucking amazing. I can&#8217;t wait to get them edited. We miss their set later to see a sloppy, problem-soaked start to the Of montreal set. Wish I hadn&#8217;t bothered.

Finished by about 5.30, we get the gear back to the car and head back into the arena to watch bands. Sober again. We see some really good bands, again playing to very few people. We finish the evening by watching the Manics set, which is a weird choice of songs, but great as always. The fanboi in me smiles a lot. We arrive home very burnt.

  * Mumford and Sons
  * Mike Nisbet
  * M83
  * The French Quarter
  * Lady Ga Ga
  * Broken Records
  * Metronomy
  * Bronto Skylift
  * Of Montreal
  * Manic Street Preachers

Sunday and Alex and I are working together, which saves my stress levels a lot. We get there too early because for once the promised roadworks don&#8217;t affect us. We sit around and pray for the rain to stop. It kinda does. We meet Adam from We Were Promised Jetpacks for our first session of the day. Adam belts out 3 songs which sound great, while the rest of the band hangs around behind him pouring pints of Tennents. I head out afterwords to see the Twilight Sad, who I barely recognise with a lack of hair. They&#8217;re really good. Dave from The Skinny is waiting to speak to them afterwards to herd them over to our filming location for their session. It turns out they need herded as they&#8217;ve started the partying rather early. They arrive in very good spirits, if a little away with it, but have not brought a capo, which is essential to the songs they are going to play. A capo is eventually found, and we get 2 lovely acoustic songs from them, before Andy disappears into the chaos clutching 2 cartons of wine. James sticks around, using an upside-down tray cover dome thing as a beer receptacle, and then treating us to an a cappella performance. At this point we bump into Tango in the Attic who, having emailed us a phone number with a digit missing, have been rather elusive all weekend. We quickly grab them to do their session, which goes really well considering the circumstances. Everyone by now is getting fired into the Tennents and is therefore very happy. We pack up the gear and head off to watch some more bands. We see some more really good stuff, including the Pet Shop Boys. Blur turn up really late and people look like they&#8217;re going to riot. We go to watch Mogwai play to a quarter full tent. They&#8217;re amazing as always. We hear the last 5 or 6 Blur songs carrying across the site, but opt to have a sit down and a drink, having seen their set at Glastonbury weeks before, and wanting to have that as our last Blur live memory. To wave us goodbye, someone has not stationed nearly enough staff in the car park, and the ones who are there don&#8217;t care, so there is hours of waiting and frustration for our lasting memory of TintheP 09. Smooth.

  * The Twilight Sad
  * Elbow
  * Pet Shop Boys
  * TV on the Radio
  * We Were Promised Jetpacks
  * Mogwai